

Kubernetes, also known as K8s, is an open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications.




Containerization is a lightweight alternative to a virtual machine that involves encapsulating an application in a container with its own operating system. A container takes its meaning from the logistics term, packaging container.




Docker is a set of platform as a service products that use OS-level virtualization to deliver software in packages called containers. Containers are isolated from one another and bundle their own software, 
libraries and configuration files; they can communicate with each other through well-defined channels





Jenkins is a free and open source automation server. It helps automate the parts of software development related to building, testing, and deploying, facilitating continuous integration and continuous delivery. 
It is a server-based system that runs in servlet containers such as Apache Tomcat.



Helm helps you manage Kubernetes applications — Helm Charts help you define, install, and upgrade even the most complex Kubernetes application.



Ansible is an open-source software provisioning, configuration management, and application-deployment tool enabling infrastructure as code. It runs on many Unix-like systems, 
and can configure both Unix-like systems as well as Microsoft Windows.




Terraform is an open-source infrastructure as code software tool created by HashiCorp. Users define and provision data center infrastructure using a declarative configuration language known as HashiCorp Configuration Language, 
or optionally JSON.



Orchestration is the automated configuration, management, and coordination of computer systems, applications, and services. Orchestration helps IT to more easily manage complex tasks and workflows. 
IT teams must manage many servers and applications, but doing so manually isn't a scalable strategy.





Container
---------
A container is a software package that contains everything the software needs to run. This includes the executable program as well as system tools, libraries, and settings. 
Containers are not installed like traditional software programs, which allows them to be isolated from the other software and the operating system itself.

The isolated nature of containers provides several benefits. First, the software in a container will run the same in different environments. For example, 
a container that includes PHP and MySQL can run identically on both a Linux computer and a Windows machine. Second, containers provide added security since the software will not affect the host operating system. 
While an installed application may alter system settings and modify resources, such as the Windows registry, a container can only modify settings within the container. This makes containers ideal for software testing and development.

Containers also eliminate installation issues, including system conflicts, version incompatibilities, and missing dependencies. The result is a "works on all machines" solution, which is ideal for both developers and end users. 
It also makes the jobs of network administrators easier, since they can deliver containers to a multiple users without having to worry about compatibility issues.

Containers vs Virtual Machines
------------------------------
Containers are similar to virtual machines (virtualization) since they include everything needed to run in a single package. However, unlike virtual machines (VMs), containers do not include a guest OS. 
Instead containers run on top of a "container platform," like Docker, which is installed on an operating system. Containers are "lightweight," meaning they require far less disk space than VMs. 
Additionally, multiple containers can run side-by-side on the same container platform.



